.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: bdelta.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.3  1992/12/03  17:23:49  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:01  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  1992/12/01  23:11:34  pnh
.\" 	First revision.
.\" 	[1992/12/01  23:03:38  pnh]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH bdelta 1 12/01/92
.SH NAME
bdelta \- print changes between versions correlated to change requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBbdelta\fP 6
[\fB-all\fP] [\fB-start\fP \fIsdate\fP | \fB-end\fP \fIedate\fP] 
[\fB-o\fP \fIdir\fP] [\fIrlog_options\fR] [\fIphase_options\fR] [\fIfile...\fP]
.IP \fIrlog_options\fR:
[\fB -c -w -r\fR]
.IP \fIphase_options\fR:
[\fB-tableonly -patchesonly\fR]
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fB-all\fP"
Creates patch files for all files listed in the \fBbsubmit.log\fP file.  This
is the default.
.IP "\fB-c\fP \fIn\fP"
Displays \fIn\fP context lines with each output line: this is passed verbatim
to the \fBbdiff\fP command.
.IP "\fB-end\fP \fIedate\fP"
Create patch files for submissions dated before or on \fIdate\fP.
.IP "\fB-o\fP \fIdir\fP"
Use \fIdir\fP as the parent directory to use in creating a
shadow hierarchy of patch files.  The default is the current working
directory.
.IP "\fB-patchesonly\fP"
Create the patchfiles in the hierarchy on the basis of the existing
\fBbdelta.table\fP file.
.IP "\fB-r\fP \fIsymbolic_name\fP"
If specified, the previous version against which the file is \fBbdiff\fP'd is not
the immediate predecessor RCS version
as recorded in the \fBbsubmit.log\fP file, but the version associated
with \fIsymbolic_name\fP.
.IP "\fB-start\fP \fIsdate\fP"
Create patch files for submissions dated on or after \fIdate\fP.
.IP "\fB-tableonly\fP"
Create the \fBbdelta.table\fP but do not generate patch files in a hierarchy.
.IP "\fB-w\fP"
Causes whitespace to be ignored: this is
passed verbatim to the \fBbdiff\fP command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBbdelta\fP command creates a shadow hierarchy of patch files on the
basis of information in the \fBbsubmit.log\fP for the current build.
It does this via the intermediate step of generating an ASCII flat file
called \fBbdelta.table\fP which makes the information available for \fBawk\fP,
\fBgrep\fP or other utilities.
This \fBbdelta.table\fP is generated from specific
\fBbsubmit.log\fP information of the
following format (one for each file submitted).  Note that
\fIcheckedin_vnum\fR and \fIprevious_vnum\fR are the current and previous
RCS version numbers for the file \fIfname\fR.
.nf
.ft CW

Submission Log *****
  Date: <date>; Time: <time>
  Defect number: <crnum>, <crnum>
  List of files and revisions:
<fname> <checkedin_vnum> <previous_vnum>
Detailed description:
End Log *****

.ft R
.fi
.P
The first \fBbdelta\fP parameter (\fB-all\fP or 
\fB-start\fP \fIsdate\fP and/or \fB-end\fP \fIedate\fP)
determines the extent of the tables and patch files that the tool produces.
If \fB-all\fP is specified, the tool processes the entire \fBbsubmit.log\fP
file
and produces output that reflects all the changes covered in that
log file.  This is the default.
If the \fB-start\fP and \fB-end\fP option
is used, the \fBbsubmit.log\fP file would only
be processed within the range of the start date and end date.  The
\fBstart\fP and \fBend\fP flags may be used individually or in combination.
.PP
The \fB-o\fP option specifies the name of the parent directory that will
house the output files from the tool (see below for the definition of
the output files).  This defaults to the current directory if not 
specified.
.PP
The \fB-r\fP option specifies that the 
\fBbdiff\fP should be performed against the
version of the file associated with the symbolic name represented by the
option's value.  For example, to obtain patches reflecting changes between 
the current build and OSF/1 version 1.1, use the flag "-rOSC1_1".
See the project-specific documentation or consult Release and Tools
personnel for more information on this feature.
.PP
There are two kinds of output files.
The \fBbdelta.table\fP file contains one line for each submitted
file, such that each line is a record with tab-separated fields representing
a file, the number of the change request resolved by the submission,
the number of the previous RCS version and the number of the RCS version of
the submission, as in the following example.
Note that if a submission has been associated with more
than one CR number, then a line will be generated for each of the CRs
listed after the "Defect number" field.
.nf
.ft CW

/pathA/filename.c        7077    1.27.22.2       1.27.22.3
/pathB/otherfile.c       7077    1.31.2.5        1.31.2.6
/pathA/filename.c        7023    1.27.22.3       1.27.22.4
/pathB/filenm3.c 7023    1.13.15.9       1.13.15.10
/pathA/filename.c        7134    1.27.22.4       1.27.22.5
/pathB/otherfile.c       7064    1.31.2.6        1.31.2.7
/pathB/filenm3.c 7110    1.13.15.10      1.13.15.11

.ft R
.fi
.PP
The columns in the file correspond directly to the fields in the 
\fBbsubmit.log\fP lines.  
This file can be searched for information such as which
files were modified to resolve a particular change request, 
which change requests required changes to a particular file,
and which revisions were involved in changes to a CR or file.
The order of the filenames in the file indicate the chronological order
of the revisions to the files.
.PP
The other files that \fBbdelta\fP produces are in 
a shadow hierarchy, under \fIdir\fP as specified with the \fB-o\fP
flag, which mirrors the
hierarchy implied by all the paths listed in
\fBbdelta.table\fP. In
the place of the actual files at the leaf points, 
\fBbdelta\fP generates a set of
files that contain the differences for each CR affecting that file.
The filenames for these patches have the form 
.IR filename.crnumber.index ,
where 
.I index
is an integer greater than 1 and less than 1000000.  The index is
necessary to provide unique filenames in the event that multiple 
submissions where made against the same file and the same CR in a
single build or build period.
.PP
Older versions of \fBbsubmit\fR do not write previous RCS version number
information to the \fBbsubmit.log\fR file.  Their file revision lines
only provide filename and submitted RCS version number information.
In this case \fBbdelta\fR
uses the \fBbstat\fR command to determine the previous version number,
relying on the \fB-r\fR flag with an option derived from the 
\fIcheck_out_config\fR variable in the \fBrc_files/shared\fR file to
trace back through a list of previous builds until the previous
version is found.  If this command fails for any reason, a warning
message is sent to standard error and a heuristic algorithm is used to
determine the previous version.
.PP
It is normal for this utility to make a directory in the \fB/tmp\fR 
directory because it uses the ODE environment.  Note that you must 
give the \fBworkon\fR command in order to set up your environment properly
for using this command.  See the ODE documentation for more information.
.SH FILES
.IP \fBbsubmit.log\fR
Input file for \fBbdelta\fP.
.IP \fBbdelta.table\fR
Table output by \fBbdelta\fP presenting information on individual submissions.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
At the moment, \fBbdelta\fR does no processing of defuncted files.
