.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: currentsb.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.6.6.1  1993/09/14  00:41:24  marty
.\" 	CR # 623 - Remove -sb_rc
.\" 	[1993/09/14  00:28:58  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.6.4.2  1993/04/21  18:42:05  damon
.\" 	CR 421. Updated for 2.3
.\" 	[1993/04/21  18:39:32  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:00  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:09  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  1991/12/05  21:15:15  devrcs
.\" 	Update for Tools II changes
.\" 	[90/12/28  11:59:48  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/12/06  14:21:10  devrcs
.\" 	Pre-OSF/1 changes
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH currentsb 1 4/21/93
.ds ]W ODE 2.3
.SH NAME
currentsb \- lists the current sandbox and set environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBcurrentsb\fR 10
[\fB-sb -set -dir -setdir -back\fP] [\fB-all\fP] [\fIODE opts\fR]
.IP "\fIODE opts\fR:" 10
[\fB-usage -version\fP] [\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fP] 
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fB-sb\fR"
Prints out the current sandbox.
If no options are given, the current sandbox and current set are
printed out by default.
.IP "\fB-set\fR"
Prints out the current set.
If no options are given, the current sandbox and current set are
printed out by default.
.IP "\fB-dir\fR"
Prints out the base directory for the current sandbox.
.IP "\fB-setdir\fR"
Prints out the default set directory for the current sandbox.
.IP "\fB-back\fR"
Prints out the backing tree for the current sandbox relative to the
current working directory.
.IP "\fB-all\fR"
Prints out all the information in this order:
sandbox set sandbox-dir set-dir sb-rcfile backing-tree.
.P
.ti 2
\fIODE opts\fR:
.IP "\fB\-usage\fR"
Prints a brief usage message.
.IP "\fB\-version\fR"
Prints the revision information.
.IP "\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fR"
By default, \fBcurrentsb\fR uses \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR to determine the
current sandbox.
If this option is given, the specified user's rc file will be used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
By default,
.B currentsb
lists the current sandbox and the current set.
It returns the string
\fB"--EMPTY --EMPTY"\fR
if it cannot find the current sandbox and the string "\fIsbname \fB--EMPTY\fR"
if it cannot find the current set.
Otherwise its output is of the form "\fIsbname setname \fR"
with a single space in between each word and one at the end.
.P
The current sandbox is determined by the environment variable
.B SANDBOX
first then by the default sandbox listed in the user's rc file
which defaults to
.B $HOME/.sandboxrc.
The current set is determined by the environment variable
.B BCSSET
first then by the default set in the sandbox's 
.B rc_files/sets
rc file.
.P
The other options for
.B currentsb
print out other information about the current environment.
If two or more pieces of information are requested,
the information is always printed in the following order:
sandbox set sandbox-dir set-dir sb-rcfile backing-tree.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.B currentsb
can be use as a command to indicate the current state,
and it can be used in a start up file, such as .cshrc, to automatically
setup the environment.
An example of its use in a .cshrc to set the environment and path is:
.sp
.nf
  if ( ! $?SANDBOX ) then         # get SANDBOX if not set already
    setenv SANDBOX `currentsb -sb`

    if ( "$SANDBOX" == "--EMPTY" ) then       # no default SANDBOX
      unsetenv SANDBOX
    endif
  endif

  if ( $?SANDBOX )
    if ( $?BCSSET ) then 
      setenv BCSSET `currentsb -set`

    if ( "$BCSSET" == "--EMPTY" ) then         # no default BCSSET
      unsetenv BCSSET
    endif

		      # if there is a SANDBOX put its path first
    setenv PATH /project/osc/sandboxes/suzieq/${SANDBOX}\\
                /link/tools/pmax/bin:$PATH
  endif
.fi

.SH FILES
.P
.IP \fB${HOME}/.sandboxrc\fR 
rc file that specifies existing sandboxes and the default sandbox.
.IP \fI/sandbox/\fBrc_files/sets\fR
list of valid sets in each sandbox.
.IP \fI/sandbox/\fBrc_files/projects\fR
list of directories and associated sandbox rc files.

.SH EXIT VALUES
.P
\fBcurrentsb\fR returns '0' if okay; -1 if error.

.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.P
sbinfo(1)
