.\"
.TH genpath 1 5/20/90
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.PP
genpath \- expands a flag specified by a relative directory to look in all backing trees
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: genpath.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.6.6.2  1993/09/14  14:45:12  marty
.\" 	CR # 623 - Changes references to rc_files/local to rc_fiels/projectname/sb.conf
.\" 	[1993/09/14  14:44:58  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.6.6.1  1993/09/14  00:41:27  marty
.\" 	CR # 623
.\" 	[1993/09/14  00:39:30  marty]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.4.2  1993/04/21  18:42:08  damon
.\" 	CR 421. Updated for 2.3
.\" 	[1993/04/21  18:39:33  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:04  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:11  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  1991/12/05  21:15:18  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:18  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/12/06  14:21:13  devrcs
.\" 	Cleanup copyright and history log comments.
.\" 	[90/11/15  11:46:22  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  90/10/07  21:56:45  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:12:59  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/06/22  22:05:21  devrcs
.\" 	Fixed up merge error
.\" 	[90/05/21  14:41:30  pam]
.\" 
.\" 	fixed FILES references
.\" 	[90/05/21  12:52:20  pam]
.\" 
.\" 	fixed formatting
.\" 	[90/05/21  11:57:31  pam]
.\" 
.\" 	added examples
.\" 	[90/05/21  11:54:32  pam]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/05/24  23:13:38  devrcs
.\" 	preliminary versions
.\" 	[90/05/08  17:17:49  pam]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBgenpath\fP
[\fB-sb \fP\fIsandbox-name\fP]
[\fB-rc \fP\fIrc-file\fP]
[\fB-usage\fP]
[\fB-v\fP]
flags_to_be_expanded
.PP
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\fB-sb \fP\fIsandbox-name\fP"
The sandbox name.
The default value of this flag is the value of $SANDBOX or the default
sandbox name listed in your $HOME/.sandboxrc file.
.IP "\fB-rc \fP\fIrc-file\fP"
Provides the path and name of an alternative .sandboxrc file to use instead of
the default \fB${HOME}/.sandboxrc\fP.
.IP "\fB-usage\fP"
Print the usage line.
.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Provides additional debugging information.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B genpath
searches through the local file in your sandbox rc_files
directory for backing trees for your sandbox.
Each flags_to_be_expanded that is specified with a relative path is expanded
to a list of flags for the obj tree and src tree of the sandbox and of
each backing tree.
Each flags_to_be_expanded that does not contain a relative path or is not
of the form -Cpath (where C is any character and path is a relative path)
is passed through unchanged.
In the beta version of \fBgenpath\fP, only the flags -I and -L are recognized.
\fBgenpath\fP functions commutatively, therefore:
.sp
.in +2
`\fBgenpath\fP -Ifoo -Ibar`
.in
.sp
is equivelent to
.sp
.in +2
`\fBgenpath\fP -Ifoo` `\fBgenpath\fP -Ibar`
.in
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Here is the simple use of \fBgenpath\fP in a sandbox, /foo, backed by
a backing tree, /back:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cd /foo/src/usr
genpath -I. -Iinc
.fi
.in
.sp
This returns the value:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-I. -I/foo/src/usr -I/back/obj/pmax/usr -I/back/src/usr -Iinc \\
-I/foo/src/usr/inc -I/back/obj/pmax/usr/inc -I/back/src/usr/inc
.fi
.in
.sp
.PP
When \fBgenpath\fP is run in a Makefile, it will be executing
from the obj directory
that corresponds to the source directory of the Makefile that it is called in.
If the obj directory is different from the source directory then it may
be necessary to cd to the obj directory before executing a \fBgenpath\fP
command that is cut and pasted from make output.
This is an example of how to run the \fBgenpath\fP command shown in a 
Makefile which uses different source and object directories:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
(cd ../../../obj/pmax/usr/bin; genpath -I. -Ilocal_includes)
.fi
.in
.sp
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fP
is used to obtain the path of the sandbox.
.IP \fIsandbox\fP\fB/rc_files/\fIproject_name\fB/sb.conf\fP
is looked in for references to the
backing trees.
.PP
.SH PLANNED ENHANCEMENTS
.PP
If no flags_to_be_expanded are specified, then \fBgenpath\fP should 
print a list
of the source tree roots (pseudo-roots) for all of the trees that the
sandbox is backed by.
\fBgenpath\fP should allow the user to specify an environment variable 
that describes these psuedo-roots so that it does not need to read the 
rc files to determine their location.
.PP
\fBgenpath\fP will function properly with all flags, not just -I and -L.
