.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: release.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.2.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:28  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:20  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1991/12/05  21:15:32  devrcs
.\" 	updated to reflect actual command line options (removed the
.\" 	disabled switches)
.\" 	[1991/11/08  21:56:51  ezf]
.\" 
.\" 	Added to ODE tree
.\" 	[91/07/30  13:06:59  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\" 
.TH RELEASE 1 11/08/91
.SH NAME
release \- move software through release stages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B release
[ options ] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Release
is a program to help move programs, data files, etc.
from
build areas to release areas.
Build areas are typically directories where programs are compiled for
various architectures.
Release areas are set up for the distribution of software to various
sets of machines depending upon some criteria (e.g. software that is in
various stages of testing).
In general,
.I release
assumes nothing about the organization of the software release area
and must be told what actions to perform and where files are located.

.I Release
requires at least one
.I file
argument, known as the
.I target.
The
.I target
is the name the file currently has as it resides in the build area
(which may differ from the name it will have after installation in the
release area).  For example,
.I /build/bin/cp
might be the
.I file
argument to
.I release
even if it will be installed into the directory as
.I /release/bin/mv.
After all the options
have been processed, any additional parameters are
taken to be one or more
.I targets.
The first
.I target
name is taken to be the `canonical' name of the
.I target
and any additional
.I targets
are made as hard links to this name in the release area.

There are several required switches to
.I release.
The
.B \-tostage
.I tostage
option specifies the path name of the base directory where all the
.I targets
are to be created.  The
.B \-fromfile
.I fromfile
switch specifies the location of the file to be installed in
.I tostage.
.I Fromfile
is not altered in any way, and typically is a file in a system build
area.  In addition the
.B -o
and
.B -g
switches (described below) are also required.

The following additional switches are understood by
.I release:
.br
.TP 
\fB\-g\fP \fIgroup\fP
Set the group owner of the file to be
.I group.
See
.I chgrp(1).
.TP 
\fB\-m\fP \fImode\fP
Set the protection of the
.I target
according to the specified
.I mode.
See
.I chmod(1).
.TP 
\fB\-o\fP \fIowner\fP
Set the owner of the target to be
.I owner.
See
.I chown(1).
.TP
\fB\-idfile\fP \fIfilename\fP
The file containing user IDs and group IDs used during installation.
.TP 
.BR \-q
This is for quick mode.  If a non-fatal consistency check fails, then
normally
.I release
will prompt to continue.  In quick mode, a warning message is printed
and the program continues.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.I Release
checks to make sure that the number of links to
.I target
is consistent with the number of file names given on the command line.
The number of links are checked if the
.I target
already exists in
.I tobase.
The checks are intended to ensure that a link to a program that
should be in the release area is not accidently removed, or
that an extra link is not added.  Neither of these problems may be
particularly fatal, so if in quick mode only the warning message is
printed and
.I release
continues to install the
.I target
and any links as specified on the command line.
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The error messages and diagnostics should be self explanatory.
The program exits with status 0 on success and
status 1 if any problems occurred.
