.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: resb.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.6.6.2  1993/09/14  15:09:40  marty
.\" 	CR # 623 - remove references to shared and local.
.\" 	[1993/09/14  15:09:27  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.6.6.1  1993/09/14  00:41:35  marty
.\" 	CR # 623
.\" 	[1993/09/14  00:39:35  marty]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.4.2  1993/04/21  18:42:25  damon
.\" 	CR 421. Updated for 2.3
.\" 	[1993/04/21  18:39:42  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:33  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:22  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  1991/12/05  21:15:35  devrcs
.\" 	Fixed up description, examples, and adherence to
.\" 	typographic conventions
.\" 	[1991/11/06  23:13:33  robert]
.\" 
.\" 	Upgraded to Tools II interface
.\" 	[90/12/28  15:32:57  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/12/06  14:21:22  devrcs
.\" 	Pre-OSF/1 changes.
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH resb 1 4/21/93
.ds ]W ODE 2.3
.SH NAME
resb \- retarget a sandbox to use a new backing tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBresb\fP 5
 \fInew_backing_tree\fR
.IP "\fIODE opts\fR:" 10
[\fB-info -quiet -normal -verbose -usage -version\fP]
.br
[\fB-sb \fIsandbox\fR] [\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fP]
.P
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fInew_backing_tree\fP"
Full path or name of backing tree to retarget the sandbox to.
.P
.ti 2
\fIODE opts\fR:
.IP "\fB\-info\fR"
\fB-info\fR gives the user information on what \fBresb\fR would do
without actually doing anything.
The \fB-info\fR option works in conjunction with the verbosity options.
.IP "\fB\-quiet\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-quiet\fR prints only the information which the user must always
receive including all fatal error messages.
.IP "\fB\-normal\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-normal\fR is the default verbosity and prints out the significant
steps the program is taking and warnings.
It also prints out all information \fB-quiet\fR prints.
.IP "\fB\-verbose\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-verbose\fR prints out detailed information on what steps the program
is taking and all diagnostic errors.
It also prints out all information \fB-quiet\fR and \fB-normal\fR prints.
.IP "\fB\-usage\fR"
Prints a brief usage message.
.IP "\fB\-version\fR"
Prints the revision information.
.IP "\fB\-sb \fIsandbox\fR"
Use of this option overrides the default sandbox \fBresb\fR
tries to read from the
environment variable \fB$SANDBOX\fR or a default entry
in \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR.
.IP "\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fR"
Use of this option overrides the default sandbox rc file, 
\fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBresb\fP retargets a sandbox to use the new backing tree by 
saving the old sandbox rc_files, changing the sandbox link to point at the new
backing tree, and regenerating the sandbox rc_files from the 
backing tree templates.
The full path name of the new backing tree can be given on the
command line or, the short-hand name can be used if the backing
tree has an entry in the build list file 
(\fB/project/projects/build_list\fR). 
.P
A sandbox populated with
links may need to be repopulated after a \fBresb\fR command to
pick up new files, or accommodate changes in existing files' pathnames. 
Refer to the \fBmklinks\fR command for repopulating a sandbox
with links. Local modifications to sandbox rc_files are
not preserved across \fBresb\fR commands, and will need to be
integrated by the user after retargeting a sandbox. 
.P
Like other OSF Development Environment commands, \fBresb\fP uses the -sb flag,
the environment variable \fB$SANDBOX\fR, or the default found in
\fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR (in that order) to determine the current sandbox.
.SH EXAMPLES
Retarget the current working sandbox 
to the backing tree 
listed in the build list file as \fBlatest\fR:
.ti 5
\fBresb latest\fR
.P
Retarget the current working sandbox
to be backed
by (the sandbox) \fB/sandboxes/suzieq/symphony\fR:
.ti 5
\fBresb /sandboxes/suzieq/symphony\fR
.P
Retarget the current working sandbox
to be backed by the backing
tree with absolute path \fB/project/osc/build/osc1.1\fR.
The sandbox description will be read from the (non-default)
sandbox rc file, \fB/tmp/.sandboxrc\fR. Verbose information
will be given by the \fBresb\fR command as work progresses: 
.ti 5
\fBresb -verbose -rc /tmp/.sandboxrc /project/osc/build/osc1.1\fR 
.SH FILES
.P
.IP \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fP 
the default path and file name of the sandbox rc file whose contents describes
one or more sandboxes 
.IP \fIsandbox\fP\fB/rc_files/*\fP
sandbox configuration files recreated by \fBresb\fP.
.IP \fIsandbox\fP\fB/link\fP
the link modified by \fBresb\fR that defines a sandbox's backing tree
.IP \fBproject/projects/build_list\fP
the list of valid backing trees searched by \fBresb\fR and other ODE commands
for a backing trees short-hand name, path name, and other information
.P
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.P
mksb(1),
mklinks(1),
sbinfo(1),
sandboxrc(5)
