.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: sadmin.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.7.8.1  1994/01/11  14:58:08  marty
.\" 	CR 759 - Update man page for sadmin.
.\" 	[1994/01/11  14:57:53  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.7.6.1  1993/09/14  00:41:38  marty
.\" 	CR # 623
.\" 	[1993/09/14  00:39:36  marty]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7.4.2  1993/04/21  18:42:28  damon
.\" 	CR 421. Updated for 2.3
.\" 	[1993/04/21  18:39:44  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:38  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:23  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7  1991/12/05  21:15:38  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:24  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" 	Updated to match addition of tracking
.\" 	[90/12/05  15:03:57  randyb]
.\" 
.\" 	Modified to agree with changes for network access to log files.
.\" 	[90/11/30  11:39:22  randyb]
.\" 
.\" 	Changed -target to -b to match bsubmit.
.\" 	[90/11/14  09:55:00  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/12/06  14:21:25  devrcs
.\" 	Cleanup copyright and history log comments.
.\" 	[90/11/15  11:46:57  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  90/10/07  21:57:04  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:13:33  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/07/27  11:11:04  devrcs
.\" 	Changes made for sadmin
.\" 	[90/07/16  12:58:10  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/07/17  12:37:27  devrcs
.\" 	Initial revision
.\" 	[90/07/09  09:41:13  randyb]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"
.TH sadmin 1 4/21/93
.ds ]W ODE 2.3
.SH NAME
sadmin \- do administrative work on the submission logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBsadmin\fR 8
\fB-copy \ \ hold | log | snap | defunct\fR [\fIgen opts\fR] \fIdestination\fR
.IP \fBsadmin\fR 8
\fB-edit \ \ hold | log | snap | defunct\fR [\fIgen opts\fR]
[\fIsandbox opts\fR]
.IP \fBsadmin\fR 8
\fB-usage \fR|\fB -version\fR
.ti 6
\fIgen opts\fR: [\fB-v -info -q -debug\fR] [\fB-back \fItarget\fR]
.ti 6
\fIsb opts\fR: [\fB-sb \fIsandbox\fR] [\fB-set \fIsetname\fR]
[\fB-rc \fIrc-file\fR] 
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fB-copy \ \ hold | log | snap | defunct\fR \fIdestination\fR"
Copy one of the four \fBbsubmit\fR files; the \fBbsubmit.hold\fR file,
the \fBbsubmit.log\fR file, the \fBSNAPSHOT\fR file, or the \fBDEFUNCT\fR file.
The file is copied into the \fIdestination\fR given by the user.
This can be an absolute or relative path and filename.
.IP "\fB-edit \ \ hold | log | snap | defunct\fR"
Edit one of the four \fBbsubmit\fR files; the \fBbsubmit.hold\fR file,
the \fBbsubmit.log\fR file, the \fBSNAPSHOT\fR file, or the \fBDEFUNCT\fR file.
The file is first copied into your sandbox \fBtmp\fR directory under its
real name, i.e. \fBbsubmit.hold\fR, \fBbsubmit.log\fR, \fBSNAPSHOT\fR, or
\fBDEFUNCT\fR.
This is done because these files are not writable as mounted.
The user edits the local copy of the file and, after exiting the editing
session, the file is transferred over the network and the original file is
overwritten.
.IP "\fB\-usage\fR"
Prints a brief usage message.
.IP "\fB\-version\fR"
Prints the revision information.
.P
.ti 2
\fIgen opts\fR:
.IP "\fB-v\fR
Verbose mode.
.IP "\fB-info\fR
Indicates what \fBsadmin\fR would do without actually doing it.
.IP "\fB-q\fR
Quiet mode.
.IP "\fB-debug\fR
Gives debugging information.
.IP "\fB-back \fBtarget\fR
Perform the operation on the build or shared sandbox specified by \fBtarget\fR
instead of the default build.
The form of the target must be the complete path starting with a "/".
.P
.ti 2
\fIsb opts\fR:
.IP "\fB-sb \fIsandbox\fR"
Name of the sandbox to use if it is not the current sandbox.
If this option is not used, the sandbox will be determined by the
environment variable \fBSANDBOX\fR or, if that is not set, by
the user's default sandbox.
.IP "\fB-set \fIsetname\fR"
Name of the set to use if it is not the current set.
If this option is not used, the set will be determined by the
environment variable \fBBCSSET\fR or, if that is not set, by
the sandbox's default set.
.IP "\fB\-rc \fIrc-file\fR"
Provides the path and name of the user's rc file to use instead of
the default file \fB${HOME}/.sandboxrc\fR.
If this option is not used, the default rc file will be used.
.P
\fBsadmin\fR provides a safe way to update, correct, and copy the
various files used in submitting.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBsadmin\fR is used to correct problems in the \fBbsubmit\fR logs.
Because these logs are in constant use, they cannot simply be moved,
copied, and edited without locking them,
but, because \fBbsubmit\fR cannot always recover from a failed submission,
these logs get corrupted and must be fixed.
\fBsadmin\fR provides the network
interface necessary to modify these files.
.P
\fBsadmin\fR is designed to work primarily with the default submission
build.
The default build is garnered from the sandbox's backing tree.
The default can be overridden, however, with the \fB-back\fR option and the
the name of the build the user want to work on, e.g.
.P
.ti 4
.B "-back symphony"
.P
If \fBsadmin\fR cannot determine where the build is, it will print an
error message, and the user must provide the full path to the build to
work on, e.g.
.P
.ti 4
.B "-back /sandboxes/suzieq/symphony"
.P
Any of the four files can be copied or edited by using the
\fB-copy\fR or \fB-edit\fR options.
The file is always copied into the destination the user provides.
When editing, the user is editing a local copy of the file which is
then transferred over the network to replace the actual file.
.P
.SH FILES
.P
.IP \fI<build>\fB/logs/SNAPSHOT\fR 
file containing the current revision of each file for this build.
.IP \fI<build>\fB/logs/DEFUNCT\fR 
file containing the current list of each file which should be made defunct.
.IP \fI<build>\fB/logs/bsubmit.log\fR 
file containing the log entries for every submission.

.SH EXIT VALUES
.P
\fBsadmin\fR returns '0' upon successful completion, '-1' otherwise.

.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.P
bsubmit(1)
