.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: sbinfo.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.6.6.1  1993/09/14  00:41:41  marty
.\" 	CR # 623
.\" 	[1993/09/14  00:39:38  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.6.4.2  1993/04/21  18:42:32  damon
.\" 	CR 421. Updated for 2.3
.\" 	[1993/04/21  18:39:46  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:43  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:25  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  1991/12/05  21:15:41  devrcs
.\" 	Changes for ODE 2.1 reference page review.
.\" 	[1991/11/03  18:39:15  damon]
.\" 
.\" 	Updated to Tools II specs
.\" 	[90/12/31  12:03:05  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/12/06  14:21:28  devrcs
.\" 	Pre-OSF/1 changes
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH sbinfo 1 4/21/93
.ds ]W ODE 2.3
.SH NAME
sbinfo \- show information derived from the local sandbox rc file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBsbinfo\fP 7
[\fIdirective(s)\fR]
.IP "\fIODE opts\fR:" 10
[\fB-quiet -normal -verbose -debug -usage -version\fP]
.br
[\fB-sb \fIsandbox\fR] [\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fP] 
.P
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fIdirective(s)\fP"
One or more sandbox variables.
.P
.ti 2
\fIODE opts\fR:
.IP "\fB\-quiet\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-quiet\fR prints only the information which the user must always
receive including all fatal error messages.
.IP "\fB\-normal\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-normal\fR is the default verbosity and prints out the significant
steps the program is taking and warnings.
It also prints out all information \fB-quiet\fR prints.
.IP "\fB\-verbose\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
Not used for this command.
.IP "\fB\-usage\fR"
Prints a brief usage message.
.IP "\fB\-version\fR"
Prints the revision information.
.IP "\fB\-sb \fIsandbox\fR"
By default, \fBsbinfo\fR uses the current sandbox as determined by the
environment variable \fBSANDBOX\fR or, if that is not set, by
the default sandbox in the user's rc file.
If this option is given, the specified sandbox will be used.
.IP "\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fR"
By default, \fBsbinfo\fR uses \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR to determine the
current sandbox.
If this option is given, the specified user's rc file will be used.
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBsbinfo\fP reads the local rc file in the users sandbox rc_files directory
and prints out the environment variables and directives that it has resolved.
\fBsbinfo\fP is used to list the values of variables and
directives that build and other sandbox based tools derive from rc files
when they are used in that sandbox.
All variables and directives are printed out in their expanded forms.
When directives are specified on the command line, only the value of those
directives are printed out, not the entire sandbox environment.
If the local rc file includes any other rc files,
such as the shared rc file and
the rc files of backing trees,
\fBsbinfo\fP will use all of the information from the other rc files to
determine the values of all variables and directives.
.P
.SS FILES
.P
.IP \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fP 
is used to obtain the path of the sandbox.
.IP \fIsandbox\fP\fB/rc_files/projects\fP
used to determine the appropriate sandbox rc file.
.IP \fIsandbox\fP\fB/rc_files/*\fP
are other rc files that the local rc file may reference.
.P
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.P
sandboxrc(5)
