.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: uptodate.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.7.4.2  1993/09/14  19:49:25  marty
.\" 	CR # 623 - Remove sb_rc.
.\" 	[1993/09/14  19:48:30  marty]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.7.4.1  1993/09/14  18:17:23  marty
.\" 	CR # 623
.\" 	[1993/09/14  18:17:09  marty]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7.2.2  1992/12/03  17:24:48  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:27  damon]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7  1991/12/05  21:15:48  devrcs
.\" 	Changes for ODE 2.1 reference pages.
.\" 	[1991/11/03  18:39:17  damon]
.\" 
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:30  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" 	Updated man page to agree with Tools II changes
.\" 	[91/01/11  17:05:34  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  90/12/06  14:21:30  devrcs
.\" 	Cleanup copyright and history log comments.
.\" 	[90/11/15  11:47:10  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  90/10/07  21:57:13  devrcs
.\" 	Pre OSF/1 changes
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH uptodate 1 1/11/91
.SH NAME
uptodate \- populate a sandbox with the most recent copies of files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBuptodate\fR 10
[\fB-query -norecurse -overwrite\fR]
[\fIgen opts\fR] [\fIODE opts\fR] \fIdirectory(ies)\fR
.IP "\fIgen opts\fR:" 10
[\fB-copy_from  \fIsource\fR] [\fB-cmp_to  \fIbase\fR]
.IP "\fIODE opts\fR:" 10
[\fB-info -quiet -normal -verbose -usage -rev\fP]
.br
[\fB-sb \fIsandbox\fR] [\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fP]
.SH FLAGS
.IP "\fB-query\fR"
Queries the user for each file to be copied before copying it.
.IP "\fB-norecurse\fR"
Does not recurse down through the directory(ies) given as arguments,
only copies the files under each directory.
.IP "\fB-overwrite\fR"
Copies any file which is newer in the default build even if it already
exists in the user's sandbox.
The normal condition is not to overwrite these files.
Files which the user has checked-out and are therefore listed in
the \fB.BCSconfig\fR file are never overwritten.
.P
.ti 2
.IP "\fIgen opts\fR"
.IP "\fB-copy_from \fIsource-directory\fR"
Uses \fIsource-directory\fR as the full path of the directory to make
copies from.
The default source_directory is the default build.
The \fIsource-directory\fR must have the file \fBlogs/SNAPSHOT\fR
under it which lists the files and revisions in the build.
It also must have the sources under the directory \fBsrc\fR.
.IP "\fB-cmp_to \fIbase-directory\fR"
Uses \fIbase-directory\fR as the full path of the backing tree
to compare against.
The default base_directory is the backing tree as determined by
the sandbox's rc file.
Like the source-directory, the base-directory must have the file
\fBlogs/SNAPSHOT\fR.
.P
.ti 2
\fIODE opts\fR:
.IP "\fB\-info\fR"
\fB-info\fR gives the user information on what \fBuptodate\fR would do
without actually doing anything.
The \fB-info\fR option works in conjunction with the verbosity options.
.IP "\fB\-quiet\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-quiet\fR prints only the information which the user must always
receive including all fatal error messages.
.IP "\fB\-normal\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-normal\fR is the default verbosity and prints out the significant
steps the program is taking and warnings.
It also prints out all information \fB-quiet\fR prints.
.IP "\fB\-verbose\fR"
One of three levels of verbosity.
\fB-verbose\fR prints out detailed information on what steps the program
is taking and all diagnostic errors.
It also prints out all information \fB-quiet\fR and \fB-normal\fR prints.
.IP "\fB\-usage\fR"
Prints a brief usage message.
.IP "\fB\-rev\fR"
Prints the revision information.
.IP "\fB\-sb \fIsandbox\fR"
By default, \fBuptodate\fR uses the current sandbox as determined by the
environment variable \fBSANDBOX\fR or, if that is not set, by
the default sandbox in the user's rc file.
If this option is given, the specified sandbox will be used.
.IP "\fB-rc \fIrcfile\fR"
By default, \fBuptodate\fR uses \fB$HOME/.sandboxrc\fR to determine the
current sandbox.
If this option is given, the specified user's rc file will be used.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBuptodate\fR is designed to allow a user to do her work backed by
a build other than the default while keeping current with changes in the
default backing build.
.P
To do this,
\fBuptodate\fR does a three-way comparison between the SNAPSHOT file
in the default build, the SNAPSHOT file in the build the sandbox is backed
by, and a file in the user's sandbox which keeps track of these updates.
The local file is called \fBuptodate\fR and is found 
under \fI/sandbox/\fBlogs\fR.
This file does not exist until \fBuptodate\fR has been run at least once.
.P
The files which are different and not protected and which are under the
directory(ies) given as arguments will be copied into the user's sandbox. 
.P
\fBuptodate\fR then modifies the \fBuptodate\fR log file to reflect all
the changes it has made to the sandbox.
This is a cumulative log, so if the user has called \fBuptodate\fR five
times, the results of all five calls will be merged into this log.
Another set of logs, also under \fI/sandbox/\fBlogs\fR, have the names
\fBuptodate.\fIN\fR, where the suffix "\fIN\fR" is incremented each time
\fBuptodate\fR is run.
These logs provide a record of the files updated by individual calls to
\fBuptodate\fR.
.P
If the user does not want to compare the current backing tree to
the default build, either or both can be changed using the
\fB-cmp_to\fR option to alter the backing tree and the \fB-copy_from\fR
option to change the default build.
\fBuptodate\fR expects these options to give absolute paths to new
locations, i.e. the arguments must start with a slash '/',
and it expects the new location to contain the appropriate
files such as SNAPSHOT.
.P
Like other ODE sandbox commands, \fBuptodate\fR supports the \fB-sb\fR
flag to indicate the the name of the sandbox to use.
The \fB-rc\fR option can be used to changed the name
of the default rc file.
.P
If the user retargets the sandbox to another build, it may no longer be
necessary to have local copies of all the sources.
At this point, it may be desirable to manually clean out the source
directory and to remove the \fBlogs/uptodate\fR file and rerun \fBuptodate\fR.
.P
In some cases, the user may wish to see the list of the files \fBuptodate\fR
found during each part of its search.
The \fB-debug\fR option provides this information.
.SH FILES
.P
.IP \fI/sandbox\fB/logs/uptodate\fR
holds the list of files and revision numbers which have been copied
from the default build into the user's sandbox using \fBuptodate\fR.
It merges the results of multiple calls to \fBuptodate\fR.
.IP \fIsandbox\fB/logs/update.\fIN\fR
holds the list of files and revision numbers which have been copied
from the default build into the user's sandbox in any single call
to \fBuptodate\fR.
The suffix "N" is incremented with each invocation so previous lists
are not overwritten.
.IP \fI/sandbox\fB/link\fR
provides the default path to the default backing tree to use to compare again
the default build.
The sandbox's rc file determines which backing tree is used.
.IP \fI/default-build\fB/logs/SNAPSHOT\fR
.IP \fI/backing-build\fB/logs/SNAPSHOT\fR
hold the lists of files and their revision numbers which will be compared.
.IP \fB${HOME}/.sandboxrc\fR
the default user's sandbox rc file;
it is used to obtain the path of the sandbox.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.P
sandboxrc(5), mklinks(1), resb(1).

