...\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
...\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1992, 1991, 1990 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" 
...\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute
...\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without
...\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and
...\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
...\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open
...\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or
...\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior
...\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the
...\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
...\" without express or implied warranty.
...\" 
...\" 
...\" HISTORY
...\" $Log: odexm.5,v $
...\" Revision 1.1.2.1  1993/12/16  00:04:35  marty
...\" 	CR # 856 - New man page for odexm.
...\" 	[1993/12/16  00:04:19  marty]
...\"
...\" $EndLog$
.TH odexm 5 11/5/91
.SH NAME
odexm \- description of files associated with odexm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fB/etc/odexm.conf\fR
.IP \fB/etc/services\fR
.IP \fB/etc/inetd.conf\fR
.IP \fBodexm\fR
.IP \fBoxm_relay_tcp\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBodexm\fR is the ODE execution monitor.  It is the communication
link between ODE client machines (where users typically work) and
ODE servers (where the backing tree and rcs tree reside).

.SS "ODEXM File: \fB/etc/odexm.conf\fR "
.P
The file
.B "\fB/etc/odexm.conf\fR"
is used on ODE servers to direct incoming ODE requests to the proper
backing builds and rcs trees.  There are three types of ODE
requests that a server gets: operations on the \fBrcs\fR tree, 
operations on the backing trees \fBsrc\fR directory, and 
updating logs for a backing tree.
.P
For a given backing tree on the server; each of these operations contains
an entry in the \fB/etc/odexm.conf\fR file.  For example, the project
\fBode2.3.4\fR has the following three entries:
.P
.nf
rcs/ode/ode2.3.4   /u1/rcs      /u1/servertools      devrcs /u1/servertools/odexm.map
logs/ode/ode2.3.4  /u1/ode2.3.4/logs /u1/servertools devsrc /u1/servertools/odexm.map
src/ode/ode2.3.4   /u1/ode2.3.4/src  /u1/servertools devsrc /u1/servertools/odexm.map
.fi
.P
The fields in each entry are: the unique identifier for the entry,
the location where the operation is to take place, the location of ODE server
tools, the user-id that \fBodexm\fR should run as, and the location of 
a standard \fBodexm.map\fR file.
.P
In the example above; 
all \fBrcs\fR operations for the backing build \fBode2.3.4\fR 
are directed through the entry \fIrcs/ode/ode2.3.4\fR.  The \fBrcs\fR tree resides in
\fB/u1/rcs\fR.  The tools for check-in and check-out are in \fB/u1/servertools\fR.
Operations should be run as user \fBdevrcs\fR and the \fBodexm.map\fR file is in
\fB/u1/servertools/odexm.map\fR.


.SS "ODEXM File: \fB/etc/services\fR "

This file must have a telnet port assigned to \fBodexm\fR.
The port that is typically used is \fB548\fR or \fB549\fR.  This port number
should match \fBtcp_service_number\fR entry in  the file
\fI/rcsbase/\fBode2.3_server_base/sets/\fIDEFAULT_SET\fR/sc.conf\fR

For example the entry in \fB/etc/services\fR could be:
.sp 1
.ti 7
odexm	548/tcp
.sp 1

.SS "ODEXM File: \fB/etc/inetd.conf\fR "

This file must have an entry to start up \fBodexm\fR via \fBinetd\fR.  The entry
is this file should be:
.sp 1
.nf
.ti
odexm  stream  tcp    nowait   /u1/servertools/odexm   odexm
.fi
.sp 1

Each time this file is modified, \fBinetd\fR will need to be restarted.

.SS "ODEXM File: \fBodexm\fR "
.P
\fBodexm\fR is typically places with the other ODE server tools.  In the example above
the location would be \fB/u1/servertools/odexm\fR.


.SS "ODEXM File: \fBoxm_relay_tcp\fR "
.P
\fBoxm_relay_tcp\fR is used by \fBodexm\fR during all operations.  \fBodexm\fR expects to 
find this executable in the same directory as all other ODE server tools.

