.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: abspath.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:15  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:11  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:15:58  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:41  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:57:27  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:14:10  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:22:24  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:20:26  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:03  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:49:22  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Spruced-up revision of a routine of the same name written by
.\" 	James Gosling sometime around 1980.  Added the ability to flush
.\" 	the saved name of the current working directory.
.\" 	[82/11/16            tlr]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH ABSPATH 3 11/16/82
.CM 3
.SH "NAME"
abspath \- determine absolute pathname
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
abspath (name,result)
.br
.B
char *name;
.br
.B
char *result;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Abspath
places the absolute pathname of the string
.I name
into the string
.IR result .
.sp
.I Abspath
converts the pathname in the string
.I name
to an absolute pathname by
prepending the name of the current working directory if necessary.
Then the absolute pathname is compacted by removing and resolving
superfluous steps.
.sp
Null components, and components of "." are removed
because they have no effect on the meaning of the pathname.
.sp
Components of ".." are resolved by removing them together with the
preceeding step.  However, there are certain situations in which
the preceeding step cannot be removed (for example, if there
is no preceeding step) and in these cases the ".." will remain.
.sp
.I Abspath
never returns an absolute pathname containing a trailing slash
except for the case "/".
.sp
.I Abspath
calls
.I getwd
to obtain the name of the current working directory when needed.
To improve performance, the result from
.I getwd
is saved so that
.I getwd
need not be invoked again during subsequent calls on
.IR abspath .
.sp
The special invocation
.IR abspath (0,0)
tells
.I abspath
to forget its saved name of the current working directory.
.I Abspath
has no way of knowing if the name of the current directory has changed,
so if you care about these things you must tell it.
Otherwise,
.I abspath
will continue to use its saved result from
.I getwd
and this will most likely cause it to produce erroneous results.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pwd (1), 
.IR chdir (2), 
.IR getwd (3), 
.IR path (3), 
.IR expand (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Returns \-1 on error (failure in
.IR getwd );
0 otherwise.
.SH "BUGS"
The string
.I result
is assumed to be large enough.
Intermediate calculations place a string in
.I result
that at most consists of
the name of the current working directory
concatenated with the string
.I name
plus two more characters.
.sp
If
.I getwd
fails,
.I abspath
gives up and returns \-1.
Generally, failures in
.I getwd
are pretty catastrophic.
.sp
If you call
.I chdir
or if the name of the current directory changes for some other reason,
.I abspath
will most likely produce incorrect results for relative path names
until you call 
.IR abspath (0,0).
.sp
Should
.I getwd
return a name for the current working directory
that does not begin with a slash,
.I abspath
will produce a result pathname string
that it considers to be a reasonable interpretation
of the situation.
This is not expected to happen, but
.I abspath
is prepared.
