.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: concat.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:19  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:12  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:00  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:48  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:57:31  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:14:17  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:22:27  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:20:31  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:10  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:49:46  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  89/02/22  17:58:48  gm0w
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[89/02/22            gm0w]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH CONCAT 3 2/22/89
.AT 3
.SH NAME
concat, vconcat \- concatenate strings into a buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
char *concat(buf, buflen, str1, str2, ..., NULL);
.br
.B
char *buf;
.br
.B
int buflen;
.br
.B
char *str1, *str2, ...;
.PP
.B
#include <varargs.h>
.PP
.B
char *vconcat(buf, buflen, ap)
.br
.B
char *buf;
.br
.B
int buflen;
.br
.B
va_list ap;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Concat
takes a list of string pointers and concatenates them into a buffer.
The string pointers are terminated by a NULL (0) string pointer.
.I Buf
should be a buffer of length
.IR buflen
that will contain the concatenation of the string pointers.
.PP
.I Concat
will return NULL if
.I buf
is NULL, if
.I buflen
is <= 0, or if the concatenation of the string pointers did not
fit into
.IR buf .
In all other cases,
.I concat
will terminate the concatenation with a null (0) byte and return a
pointer to the null byte.
.PP
.I Vconcat
is a varargs version of concat which may be used by routines to
concatenate their string pointer argument list into a buffer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.I end
=
.IR concat ( buf ,
.IR buflen ,
.IR dir ,
\fI"/"\fR,
.IR file ,
.IR NULL );
.PP
could be used to generate a file path from a directory name and a
file name, returning a pointer to the end of the path.
.PP
.IR concat ( end ,
.IR buf + buflen - end ,
\fI"."\fR,
.IR ext ,
.IR NULL );
.PP
could then be used to add an extension to the file path.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
strcat(3), strcpy(3), sprintf(3)
