.\" 
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: def_build.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2.2.2  1992/12/03  17:25:00  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:33  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1991/12/05  21:16:03  devrcs
.\" 	Man page for routines: default_build, get_rc_value,
.\" 	buid_base_dir, and rm_newline.
.\" 	[91/01/30  16:47:38  randyb]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\" 
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH def_build 3 1/28/91
.SH NAME
def_build \- holds routines which access rc build information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP "\fBint default_build ( buildbase, buildname, buildset, sb_rcfile )\fR"
.sp 0
.B "char ** buildbase;"
.sp 0
.B "char ** buildname;"
.sp 0
.B "char ** buildset;"
.sp 0
.B "char * sb_rcfile;"
.IP "\fBint get_rc_value ( keyword, value, contents, msgs )\fR"
.sp 0
.B "char * keyword;"
.sp 0
.B "char ** output;"
.sp 0
.B "struct rcfile contents;"
.sp 0
.B "BOOLEAN msgs;"
.IP "\fBchar * build_base_dir ( keyword, contents, errors, default )\fR"
.sp 0
.B "char * keyword;"
.sp 0
.B "struct rcfile contents;"
.sp 0
.B "BOOLEAN errors;"
.sp 0
.B "BOOLEAN default"
.IP "\fBvoid rm_newline ( char* string )"
.sp 0
.B "char * string;"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS \fBdefault_build\fR
\fBdefault_build\fR fills in the three arguments; \fBbuildbase, buildname,\fR
and \fBbuildset\fR, with the values from the sandbox rc file \fBsb_rcfile\fR.
These values correspond to the three rc file variables:
\fBbuild_base\fR, \fBdefault_build\fR, and \fBdefault_set\fR.
If an argument is set to NUL, '\0', no attempt is made to fill it.
If the argument is not NUL, \fBdefault_build\fR will create space for
for the value and set the char pointer to it.
.P
The build base is the directory the project's builds are under.
The default build is the build submissions are made to, and the default
set, the set used for submissions.

.SS \fBget_rc_value\fR
\fBget_rc_value\fR reads through the contents of \fBcontents\fR
and returns the value of the \fBkeyword\fR.
It then creates space for this value and points \fB*output\fR at
this new space.
.P
The structure \fBcontents\fR must previously have been initialized
with a call to \fBparse_rc_file\fR.
.P
If \fBmsgs\fR is set to TRUE and there is a failure in this process,
the routine prints messages about why it failed.

.SS \fBbuild_base_dir\fR
\fBbuild_base_dir\fR looks for the base directory of the build specified
by \fBkeyword\fR.
If it finds the directory, it returns a pointer to the string with directory
path, else it returns NUL.
\fBbuild_base_dir\fR uses the value of the sandbox rc variable \fBbuild_list\fR
to determine what file to read for the information it is searching for,
or, if \fBbuild_list\fR is not set, it looks in the file
\fB/project/projects/build_list\fR.
.P
If \fBerrors\fR is TRUE, this routine prints error messages when it fails,
for any reason, to find the base directory for the \fBkeyword\fR.
If \fBdefault\fR is TRUE, this routine will use the default build list
and not search for the one in the backing tree.
.P
\fBcontents\fR is an initialized rcfile structure which \fBbuild_base_dir\fR
will use to get the name of the build list file.

.SS \fBrm_newline\fR
This function removes the last occurrence of newline, '\n', from a string
and replaces it with NUL, '\0'.
.SH FILES
.IP \fBlibsb.a\fR
library containing these routines
.IP \fB/project/projects/build_list\fR
the default, site file to hold the list of builds, their configuration dates,
and base directories.
.SH EXIT VALUES
\fBdefault_build\fR returns '0' upon successful completion, '-1' otherwise.
.br
\fBget_rc_value\fR returns '0' upon successful completion, '-1' otherwise.
.br
\fBbuild_base_dir\fR returns a pointer to the string containing the
base directory upon successful completion; it returns NULL if for any
reason it cannot get this information.
.br
\fBrm_newline\fR does not return a value.
