.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: editor.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:22  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:14  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:06  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:15:53  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:57:36  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:14:23  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:22:30  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:20:36  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/03  12:54:26  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 	[90/01/03  09:52:01  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:49:56  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Removed references to obsolete editors.
.\" 	[80/11/12            mja]
.\" 
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[79/12/06            sas]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH EDITOR 3 11/12/80
.CM 2
.SH "NAME"
editor \- execute the user's favorite editor
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int editor (file,message);
.br
.B
char *file,*message;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Editor
will execute the editor preferred by the user,
to edit the file whose name is
.I
file.
The string
.I
message
will be printed to tell the user what he is editing.
.sp
This routine contains all the special knowledge needed to
execute the editors known to the system; if the user wants
to use some other editor, it will be done but with no special
assistance from this routine.
.sp
There is assumed to be an environment parameter called
.I
EDITOR,
whose value is the name of the user's favorite editor
(e.g.
.IR ex ,
.IR emacs ).
If the
.I
EDITOR
parameter is missing from the environment, some default
editor will be used.
.sp
The
.IR runp (3)
routine
is used to execute the editor; it uses the
.I
PATH
environment parameter to find the editor.
In general, if
the editor can be found by the shell, it should be found
by
.I
editor.
.sp
.I
Editor
returns the return code of the editor upon normal
completion, or 
\-1 
if the editor if interrupted or cannot
be executed.
.sp
This routine is useful for any program which allows the user
to edit a text file.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
EDITOR
.br
is assumed to be the name of the user's favorite editor.
Typical values include "ex", "vi", "emacs", and "ed", but
any other editor is also acceptable; it will be executed with a
single parameter which is the name of the file to be edited.
The value of EDITOR may be an absolute name, if desired.
.TP
PATH
.br
is assumed to be the searchlist for executable programs.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ed (1),
.IR ex (1),
.IR runp (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Returns 
\-1 
if the editor cannot be successfully executed,
0 normally, >0 if the editor itself discovers some error condition.
.SH "BUGS"
The default editor is 
.BR vi .
.sp
If
.I
message
contains a newline, it may not be completely meaningful when
using some screen-oriented editors.
