.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: filecopy.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:30  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:17  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:12  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:04  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:57:45  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:14:37  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:22:37  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:20:46  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:16  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:50:09  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[79/12/05            sas]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH FILECOPY 3 12/5/79
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
filecopy, ffilecopy \- copy an open file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int filecopy (here,there);
.br
.B
int here,there;
.sp
.B
#include <stdio.h>
.br
.B
int ffilecopy (here,there);
.br
.B
FILE *here,*there;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Filecopy
copies the open input file
.I
here
to the open output file
.I
there.
The input data from the current file pointer of
.I
here
until EOF are appended after the current file pointer of
.I
there.
.sp
.I
Ffilecopy
copies the open buffered input file
.I
here
to the open buffered output file
.I
there.
The input data from the current file pointer of
.I
here
until EOF are appended after the current file pointer
of
.I
there.
The data currently in both buffers is correctly handled, and
both buffers are left in an appropriate state.
After
.I
ffilecopy,
.I
feof(here)
will be true.
.sp
These routines are probably faster than you would care to code
for yourself, although they are quite simple.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I
Filecopy
and
.I
ffilecopy
return 0 normally, \-1 on error.
If an error occurs, the file
copying operation may be incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR rename (3)
