.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: makepath.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:47  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:23  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:27  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:26  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:58:10  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:15:19  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:22:58  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:21:12  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:32  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:51:13  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  89/02/22  17:58:59  gm0w
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[89/02/22            gm0w]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH MAKEPATH 3 2/22/89
.AT 3
.SH NAME
makepath \- create intermediate directories for a path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
char *makepath(path, refpath, trace, showerrs);
.br
.B
char *path, *refpath;
.br
.B
int trace, showerrs;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Makepath
creates any directories missing in
.IR path.
If
.I refpath
is non-null, then it must have a non-null trailing subpath that is common
to
.IR path.
The entire path will be created if
.I refpath
is given and
.I refpath
is the path of a directory, otherwise only the
components preceding the final component will be created for
.IR path.
.PP
If
.I trace
is non-zero, diagnostics will be printed to stderr.  If
.I showerrs
is non-zero error messages will be printed to stderr.
.PP
.I Makepath
return 0 if successfull, 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fImakepath\fR(\fI"/foo/bar/baz"\fR,
.IR NULL ,
.IR 1 ,
.IR 1 );
.PP
will attempt create \fI"/foo"\fR and \fI"/foo/bar"\fR, if they do not
exist, printing out changes as they are made and errors, if they occur.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(2)
