.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: match.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2.2.2  1992/12/03  17:25:06  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:36  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1991/12/05  21:16:30  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:31  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" 	Cleaned up syntax.
.\" 	[91/03/07  16:55:37  damon]
.\" 
.\" 	First version.
.\" 	[91/03/07  14:21:00  damon]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH MATCH 3 3/6/91
.CM 4
.SH "NAME"
match \- string matching functions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
gmatch (s, p)
.br
.B
register char *s, *p;
.br

Returns true if string 's' is matched by pattern 'p' where 'p'
is a string with wildcards in it.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Match
determines if a string matches a pattern.  It supports the
following wild cards:
.nf
.in 8
* - match anything
? - match one occurance of anything
[] - match any character in brackets
[N1-N2] - match any charcter from N1 to N2
! - return the inverse results of the match
\\ - take the next character literally
{a,b,c,...} - match anything in the list a,b,c,...
.in 4
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
libsb(3)
.SH "BUGS"
No known bugs
