.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: par_rc_file.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2.2.2  1992/12/03  17:25:10  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:39  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1991/12/05  21:16:35  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:42  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" 	Fixed Makefile, added new man pages
.\" 	[91/03/07  15:56:05  damon]
.\" 
.\" 	First version.
.\" 	[91/03/07  14:21:00  damon]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH PAR_RC_FILE 3 3/6/91
.CM 4
.SH "NAME"
par_rc_file \- rc file parser
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
par_rc_file(rcpath, rcfile_p)
.br
.B
char *rcpath;
struct rcfile *rcfile_p;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I par_rc_file
   Description
.SH "SEE ALSO"
libsb(3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.SH "BUGS"
No known bugs
