.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: path.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:54  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:27  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:38  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:47  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:58:23  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:15:46  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:23:09  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:21:21  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:40  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:51:41  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[79/12/05            sas]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH PATH 3 12/5/79
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
path \- split pathname into directory and file parts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
path (pathname,direc,file);
.br
.B
char *pathname,*direc,*file;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Path
breaks a complete pathname into a filename part and a directory part.
It handles all pathnames allowed in UNIX.
The resulting filename will
not have trailing slashes, and will not be null.
The resulting
directory name will not be null.
.sp
You provide three strings:
.I
pathname,
the complete name to be split,
.I
direc,
a buffer into which the directory part will be copied, and
.I
file,
a buffer to hold the filename part.
You must ensure that the
buffers are big enough.
.sp
The handling of most names is obvious, but several special cases
exist.
The name "f", containing no slashes, is split into
directory "." and filename "f".
The name "/" is directory "/" and
filename ".".
The path "" is directory "." and filename ".".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR getwd (3),
.IR expand (3)
.SH "BUGS"
The string
.I
direc
must be big enough to hold the entire pathname, since it is used
as working storage by
.I
path.
.sp
A possible future modification to
.I
path
would add the additional proviso that the directory part
will be an absolute pathname.
The implementation of this
is simple -- you perform
.I
getwd,
and prepend the value (with a separating "/"), but only
if the original
.I
pathname
is not absolute (i.e.
does not begin with "/").
It is also
possible (but not necessary) to resolve initial "../"
substrings in
.I
pathname
at that time.
