.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: prstab.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:50:58  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:28  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:16:41  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:16:53  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:58:32  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:16:03  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:23:16  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:21:26  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:41  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:51:54  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[80/04/16            sas]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH PRSTAB 3 4/16/80
.CM 2
.SH "NAME"
prstab, fprstab \- print string table using multiple columns
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
prstab(table);
.br
.B
char **table;
.sp
.B
fprstab(file, list)
.br
.B
FILE *file;
.br
.B
char **list;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Prstab
prints all the strings in the string table
.I
table.
It uses some heuristics to decide how many columns should be printed,
and prints the names in order reading down the columns (i.e.
column-major
order).
It's usually superior to just listing all the names in one long
column, and it's smart enough to use a single column if there are just
a few names.
.sp
The string table for
.I
prstab
can be declared just like a table for
.IR stablk (3),
i.e.:
.nf
.sp
	char *table[] = { "first", "second", ..., "last", 0};
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR stablk (3)
.SH "BUGS"
Several constants are wired-in.
.I
Prstab
assumes that there are 80 columns on the page, and that a leading
tab is like 7 or 8 spaces.
It leaves 5 spaces more than the longest
of all strings between columns, and likes to print at least 8 rows
if there are just a few strings.
