.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"  
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" All Rights Reserved. 
.\"  
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright 
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the 
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions 
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation. 
.\"  
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" 
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR 
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"  
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to 
.\"  
.\" Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software_Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU 
.\" School of Computer Science 
.\" Carnegie Mellon University 
.\" Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890 
.\"  
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon 
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: stablk.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/02  20:51:22  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/02  20:47:39  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:17:05  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:17:31  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:59:02  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:16:52  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:23:39  devrcs
.\" 	Taken from old libcs man pages
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:22:07  randyb]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/01/02  19:37:49  gm
.\" 	Fixes for first snapshot.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  89/12/26  10:52:20  gm
.\" 	Current version from CMU.
.\" 	[89/12/21            gm]
.\" 
.\" 	Revised for 4.3.
.\" 	[86/11/13            andi]
.\" 
.\" 	Added check for exact match if more than one string matches
.\" 	by stablk.
.\" 	[80/05/22            sas]
.\" 
.\" 	Stablk now lists strings in multiple columns when possible.
.\" 	[80/04/16            sas]
.\" 
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[79/12/05            sas]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.TH STABLK 3 5/22/80
.CM 2
.SH "NAME"
stablk \- string table lookup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int stablk (string,table,quiet);
.br
.B
char *string,**table;
.br
.B
int quiet;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Stablk
searches in the string table
.IR table ,
looking for a string whose initial characters match
.I
string.
If exactly one such string is found, then the index
of that string is returned.
If no such strings are found,
or if more than one string matches, then an error indication
is returned.
.sp
If no strings match
.I
string,
then \-1 will be returned.
Before returning, if
.I
quiet
is FALSE, then the user will be asked if he wants a list
of the strings in the table; if he says "yes", then a
list is printed.
.sp
If several strings match but one is an exact match while
the others are prefix matches, the index of the exact match
is returned.
Otherwise, when several strings match, \-2 will be returned.
Before
returning, if
.I
quiet
is FALSE, then the user will be asked if he wants a list
of matching strings; if he says "yes", then a list is printed.
.sp
The string 
.I table 
may be declared like this:
.sp
.nf
.RS
char *stable[] = {
	"first string",
	"second string",
	...
	"n-th string",
	0};
.RE
.fi
.sp
Note that the last entry of the table must be a zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR stlmatch (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
If nothing matches, \-1 is returned; if more than one string
matches, then \-2 is returned.
.SH "BUGS"
A maximum of 500 strings are allowed in the table.
