.\"
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: stubs.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2.2.2  1992/12/03  17:25:19  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:43  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1991/12/05  21:17:10  devrcs
.\" 	Man page for print_usage and print_revision stubs.
.\" 	[91/01/30  16:50:21  randyb]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TH stubs 3 1/29/91
.SH NAME
stubs \- dummy routine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP \fBprint_usage ()\fR
.IP \fBprint_revision ()\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBprint_usage\fR and \fBprint_revision\fR functions, part of libsb.a,
are dummy functions so the other libsb.a routines which call them,
such as \fBinterface\fR, will not fail.
If the user does not provide these functions,
these dummy routines will be called.
As these routines take no arguments and do nothing,
they have no affect.
.SH FILES
libsb.a
.SH EXIT VALUES
\fBprint_usage\fR has no return value
.br
\fBprint_revision\fR has no return value
