.TH UQUIT 3 8/13/90
.CM 4
.SH NAME
uquit \- prints error message, program usage, then exits program
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\" @OSF_FREE_COPYRIGHT@
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1991, 1990  
.\" Open Software Foundation, Inc. 
.\"  
.\" Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify and freely distribute 
.\" the software in this file and its documentation for any purpose without 
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and 
.\" that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation.  Further, provided that the name of Open 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc. ("OSF") not be used in advertising or 
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without prior 
.\" written permission from OSF.  OSF makes no representations about the 
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" 
.\" without express or implied warranty. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log: uquit.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4.2.2  1992/12/03  17:25:23  damon
.\" 	ODE 2.2 CR 183. Added CMU notice
.\" 	[1992/12/03  17:10:44  damon]
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1991/12/05  21:17:13  devrcs
.\" 	Added _FREE_ to copyright marker
.\" 	[91/08/01  08:17:42  mckeen]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  90/10/07  21:59:11  devrcs
.\" 	Added EndLog Marker.
.\" 	[90/09/29  14:17:06  gm]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  90/08/25  12:23:46  devrcs
.\" 	Initial revision
.\" 	[90/08/14  11:19:17  randyb]
.\" 
.\" $EndLog$
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "uquit ( status, usage, format [, arg ] ...)"
.br
.B "int status;"
.br
.B "int usage;"
.br
.B "char *format;"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
uquit
is a means of terminating a process with an error message
after having printed a usage message.
If the second argument, \fBusage\fR, is not 0,
\fBuquit\fR calls \fBprint_usage ()\fR.
.sp
A call to \fBuquit\fR should never return.
.sp
.I uquit
prints to standard error the message given in \fBformat\fR.
This is an argument list in the form specified by \fIprintf (3).\fR
\fBuquit\fR then exits with the value of \fBstatus\fR.
.sp
All of the process's files will be closed.
.SH "FILES"
.IR vfprintf (3), 
.IR exit (2), 
.IR wait (2)
.SH "EXIT VALUES"
The first argument,
.IR status ,
will be the argument passed to
.IR exit (2)
and this is the process's return code.
